---
title: EIC 2019 Godan Final 0-3
author: none
categories: [Iaido, Taikai]
tags: [Tsuka-ate, Sanpogiri, Soetezuki, Sougiri]
pin: false
render_with_liquid: true
---

## Tsuka-ate, Sanpogiri, Soetezuki, Sougiri


<style>
.yt {
  position: relative;
  display: block;
  width: 100%; /* width of iframe wrapper */
  height: 0;
  margin: auto;
  padding: 0% 0% 56.25%; /* 16:9 ratio */
  overflow: hidden;
}
.yt iframe {
  position: absolute;
  top: 0; bottom: 0; left: 0;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  border: 0;
}
</style>


<div class="yt">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/1AYc9C-ONgA?start=1:50" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


<br>(Click on the kata name to see the grading points)


<details>
<summary>
Tsuka-ate
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. Is the Tsukagashira surely pointed at the opponent's solar plexus?<br>
b. When the rear opponent is thrust, is this done with the right elbow extended fully and does the left hand bring the Koiguchi to the navel?<br>
c. When the cut is made, is it on the vertical centerline and from the correct position above the head?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Sanpogiri
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. Is the initial cut to the first opponent made through the correct diagonal angle from the top right side of the head down to the base of the chin?<br>
b. Is the cut to the opponent on the left performed without hesitation?<br>
c. Is the sword brought up to Furikaburi with a parrying action and does the last cut finish at the horizontal?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Soetezuki
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. When the initial diagonal cut is made from the opponent's right shoulder down through to the waist, is the right hand at the height of the navel and the sword tip slightly above the horizontal level?<br>
b. Is the sword held securely between the left thumb and forefinger with the right hand near the hip?<br>
c. Does the right hand finish in front of the navel after making the thrust and does the thrusting action adequately reach the opponent's body?<br>
d. When showing Zanshin, is the right elbow naturally straight and the right hand no higher or lower than the chest level?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Sougiri
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. When the sword is drawn up, is it in a correct position to parry an attack?<br>
b. When moving forwards, does the performer use Okuri Ashi footwork?<br>
c. When making the horizontal cut, is it performed horizontally with the correct angle of the blade?
</blockquote>
</details>

