---
title: 49th Jodo Taikai Shodan Semi final 0-3
author: none
categories: [Jodo, Taikai]
tags: [Tsukizue, Suigetsu, Hissage, Shamen, Sakan, Monomi]
pin: false
render_with_liquid: true
---

## Tsukizue, Suigetsu, Hissage, Shamen, Sakan, Monomi


<style>
.yt {
  position: relative;
  display: block;
  width: 100%; /* width of iframe wrapper */
  height: 0;
  margin: auto;
  padding: 0% 0% 56.25%; /* 16:9 ratio */
  overflow: hidden;
}
.yt iframe {
  position: absolute;
  top: 0; bottom: 0; left: 0;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  border: 0;
}
</style>


<div class="yt">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/moYbMwY9hYE?start=12" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


<br>(Click on the kata name to see the grading points)


<details>
<summary>
Tsukizue
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) From a correct Hasso-no-kamae are you entering Shi's Maai and cutting down to a line parallel to the floor?<br>
2) Are you adopting the correct Hidari-jodan-no-kamae?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) How is your posture after you have moved your body diagonally backwards and to the right?<br>
2) Are you striking Uchi's left wrist after rotating the Jo diagonally upwards and to the right in a large movement?<br>
3) Are you striking Uchi's left wrist with a correct Honteuchi?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Suigetsu
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) Are you correctly cutting Shi's Shomen?<br>
2) After taking sufficient Maai from Hasso-no-kamae are you correctly adopting the Chu- dan no Kamae?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) After moving your body diagonally forwards and to the right, are you correctly thrusting Uchi's Suigetsu by pulling back your left shoulder?<br>
2) Have you correctly adopted Hikiotoshi-no-kamae?<br>
3) How is the strength of your Hikiotoshiuchi?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Hissage
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) Is the Tachi's Kissaki equally aligned with the Jo in Awase?<br>
2) From Hidari-jodan-no-kamae are you correctly cutting the Shomen?<br>
3) Have you had Kuritsuke correctly performed on you?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) Is the Josaki equally aligned with the Tachi in Awase?<br>
2) From a correct Kuritsuke are you correctly thrusting the Suigetsu?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Shamen
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) Are you correctly cutting Shomen to a line parallel to the floor?<br>
2) After taking sufficient Maai are you correctly adopting Hidari-jodan-no-kamae?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) After moving your body diagonally forwards and to the right, are you correctly dividing the Jo into four equal parts, sliding your right hand and striking Uchi's temple with the Josaki?<br>
2) Are you correctly thrusting Uchi's Suigetsu?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Sakan
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) Are you correctly thrusting Shi's Suigetsu?<br>
2) After the Tachi is struck and you move backwards, are you doing so with your right, then left and right foot?<br>
3) Is your Chudan and Hasso-no-kamae correct?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) Are you taking an appropriate amount of Maai when you go into Ma Hanmi and move backwards to parry the Kensaki that has been thrust at you?<br>
2) When you strike the Tachi is your right foot forwards?<br>
3) Aligning your left foot to your right foot, are you carrying out the Hikiotoshi in a large movement after holding the entire Jo in both hands?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Monomi
</summary>
<blockquote>
Uchi:<br>
1) Are you cutting Shi's Shomen to a line parallel with the floor?<br>
2) Have you correctly adopted Hidari-jodan-no-kamae?
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
Shi:<br>
1) How is your Ashi Sabaki (footwork)?<br>
2) Are you striking Uchi's wrist after rotating the Jo in a large movement?<br>
3) Are you correctly executing Kaeshizuki?
</blockquote>
</details>

