---
title: The 57th All Japan Iaido Taikai  Godan Final 2-1
author: none
categories: [Iaido, Taikai]
tags: [Ukenagashi, Soetezuki, Sougiri]
pin: false
render_with_liquid: true
---

## Ukenagashi, Soetezuki, Sougiri


<style>
.yt {
  position: relative;
  display: block;
  width: 100%; /* width of iframe wrapper */
  height: 0;
  margin: auto;
  padding: 0% 0% 56.25%; /* 16:9 ratio */
  overflow: hidden;
}
.yt iframe {
  position: absolute;
  top: 0; bottom: 0; left: 0;
  width: 100%;
  height: 100%;
  border: 0;
}
</style>


<div class="yt">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/17GEIyBv1oA?start=251" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

<!--VID2
<div class="yt">
  <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/17GEIyBv1oA2?start=2512" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
VID2-->


<br>(Click on the kata name to see the grading points)


<details>
<summary>
Ukenagashi
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. When the parry is made, does it protect the upper body?<br>
b. Is the left foot brought back behind the right foot and the cut made along the Kesa line?<br>
c. After the cut has been made, is the left hand in front of the navel and the sword tip a little below horizontal?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Soetezuki
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. When the initial diagonal cut is made from the opponent's right shoulder down through to the waist, is the right hand at the height of the navel and the sword tip slightly above the horizontal level?<br>
b. Is the sword held securely between the left thumb and forefinger with the right hand near the hip?<br>
c. Does the right hand finish in front of the navel after making the thrust and does the thrusting action adequately reach the opponent's body?<br>
d. When showing Zanshin, is the right elbow naturally straight and the right hand no higher or lower than the chest level?
</blockquote>
</details>

<details>
<summary>
Sougiri
</summary>
<blockquote>
a. When the sword is drawn up, is it in a correct position to parry an attack?<br>
b. When moving forwards, does the performer use Okuri Ashi footwork?<br>
c. When making the horizontal cut, is it performed horizontally with the correct angle of the blade?
</blockquote>
</details>

